>> Mike North: We've been working with
TypeScript's top and bottom types which
are any and never respectively,
in a few different ways today.
So let's dig a little bit deeper into this
topic and give it some proper attention.
We'll look at how we can pass private or
unknown values through
a piece of TypeScript code.
We'll look at exhaustive conditionals.
And, finally, we'll take a look at all of
the various kinds of type guards we can
build and use that can be used with
conditionals to narrow a type down,
so you can get something more specific.
So let's open up our notes to number 6,
guards-and-extreme-types.
>> Mike North: So, first,
let's take a look at top types.
TypeScript actually has two of these,
although one is a relatively
recent development.
Any, of course, is a top type.
But TypeScript also has
a type called unknown.
Like any, unknown can receive any value.
You could assign it to a string or
to a number, whatever you want.
The different between these two
is apparent when we look at how you can
access things off of these two values.
So for the any, you can see that
we're able to grab foo.bar.baz, we're
treating it like it's a nested object and
there is no type checking error there.
And this is you're playing
by JavaScript rules, right?
No type checking.
Unknown, while it is very
happy to hold any value,
you cannot use unknown directly.
You must narrow it in some
way before you use it.
A good example of where you might
want to make use of this is an API
response where you know
you've got some JSON back.
But you need to perform
some sort of assertion
to make sure it really is what you hope it
is, before you continue down that path.
>> Mike North: And
we'll look at how you narrow that down and
it's through using Type Guards.
And we'll see that you it
can hold anything you want,
but we gotta do something
before we can access it.
>> Mike North: In terms of when you
might want to use any, they're great for
parts of our programs where we want
to retain a lot of flexibility.
>> Mike North: So, in this example,
we can see that this function, it just is
interested in printing the resolved value
of a promise out to a console, right?
So all it does is, it waits for
a promise, grabs the resolved value, and
passes it to console.log.
And if we look at the type of console.log,
it turns out, oops,
this is the interesting one.
I guess they're both,
they're somewhere here.
They both take anys, right?
That's what you're passing to console.log.
You can pass it functions and classes,
and it has it's own way of
serializing things out.
So, there is no reason for
us to further limit what kind of
promise we can handle in this way.
Any is absolutely the appropriate
type to use in this case.
>> Mike North: In terms of when we want
to use unknowns, they are good for
either values that are either private
where maybe you have a library and
you pass a value to somebody and
they might pass it somewhere else but
you don't want the to know
the structure of this thing.
Not for a security reason, but
maybe you don't want them to depend
on the structure of this thing.
You don't want that to become
part of your public API, right?
So an example of this might be,
whatever set timeout returns.
Do you really care that that's a number?
It's a number because you pass
a number back to clear timeout, right?
So you can say, set timeout,
in five seconds invoke this function.
And it's almost like it gives you a little
ticket that you can use to cancel
that later on.
But the fact that it's a number,
is not really important to you.
And maybe if this were a part of
a library, the author would want
the freedom to be able to change
this to some other thing and
to not consider that a breaking change.
So that would be a great use of unknown.
But we can certainly see that,
as is, they are not really usable.
So what we need is a type guard in order
to sufficiently narrow this type and
to be able to use it.
Here are two that you'll
already be familiar with,
because they have meaning in
the JavaScript world, typeof.
Inside here, myUnknown is of type string.
So out here it's unknown,
in here, it's a string.
And then string.split works fine.
Instanceof Promise, out here it's unknown.
In here it's a Promise any.
So this would be how you'd sort
of get it to something useful.